input/pagecontent/issues.md, before:

### Issues

#### Open Issues

*None*

#### Closed Issues

> * SVCM1 - For the validate and translate concept map, is an additional
> actor needed? (that can be drawn from existing actors in other
> profiles) Simplified actors to “Terminology Repository” and
> “Terminology Consumer.”

> * SVCM2 - Use of the Clinical Mapping Profile (CMAP). Decision made to
> merge the updated FHIR-enabled SVS and CMAP Profiles into one here.

> * SVCM3 - Within the document, two words are being used for “value set.”
> One word “valuesets” is being used in the title to simplify and avoid
> the use of commas in the title.

> * SVCM4 - Older SVS language on the “Retrieve multiple value sets”
> transaction on intensional and extensional value set definitions was
> removed.

> * SVCM5 - Combine discovery use case for Code System, Value Set and
> Concept Map into one or separate out Concept Map discovery as its own
> use case?
>
>   * *Decided to keep these as one as the workflow is the same.*

> * SVCM6 - Confirm title for the merged SVS and updated CMAP Profiles –
> SVCM?
>
>   * *Title confirmed*

> * SVCM7 - Need decision on how/whether to incorporate Clinical Mapping
> (CMAP) Actor Options
>
>   * *Decided to not incorporate those options*

> * SVCM8 - Are there concepts or descriptions included in X.4 that are
> unnecessary for the purposes of this profile?
>
>   * *Removed most of this section to streamline it.*

Commit message:

Added in conformance resources and updated based on CP that was added/published after the intial conversion.

input/pagecontent/issues.md, after:

## Significant changes from SVCM, Rev 1.3:
- Clarified [1:51.4.1.2 Business Identifiers](volume-1.html#151412-business-identifiers) examples.
- Converted resource constraint tables to StructureDefinition resources.

## Issues

IHE welcomes [New Issues](https://github.com/IHE/ITI.SVCM/issues/new/choose)
from the GitHub community. For those without GitHub access, issues may be
submitted at [ITI Public Comments](https://www.ihe.net/ITI_Public_Comments/).

As issues are submitted they will be managed on the
[SVCM GitHub Issues](https://github.com/IHE/ITI.SVCM/issues), where discussion and
workarounds may be found. These issues, when critical, will be processed using the normal
[IHE Change Proposal](https://wiki.ihe.net/index.php/Category:CPs) management and balloting.
It is important to note that as soon as a Change Proposal is approved, it carries the same
weight as a published Implementation Guide (i.e., it is testable at an
[IHE Connectathon](https://www.ihe.net/participate/connectathon/) from the time
it is approved, even if it will not be integrated until several months later).

### Open Issues and Questions
These issues were known as part of the publication, and IHE invites comments.

*None*

### Closed Issues
These issues have been decided and documented in the publication.

> * SVCM1 - For the validate and translate concept map, is an additional
> actor needed? (that can be drawn from existing actors in other
> profiles) Simplified actors to “Terminology Repository” and
> “Terminology Consumer.”

> * SVCM2 - Use of the Clinical Mapping Profile (CMAP). Decision made to
> merge the updated FHIR-enabled SVS and CMAP Profiles into one here.

> * SVCM3 - Within the document, two words are being used for “value set.”
> One word “valuesets” is being used in the title to simplify and avoid
> the use of commas in the title.

> * SVCM4 - Older SVS language on the “Retrieve multiple value sets”
> transaction on intensional and extensional value set definitions was
> removed.

> * SVCM5 - Combine discovery use case for Code System, Value Set and
> Concept Map into one or separate out Concept Map discovery as its own
> use case?
>
>   * *Decided to keep these as one as the workflow is the same.*

> * SVCM6 - Confirm title for the merged SVS and updated CMAP Profiles –
> SVCM?
>
>   * *Title confirmed*

> * SVCM7 - Need decision on how/whether to incorporate Clinical Mapping
> (CMAP) Actor Options
>
>   * *Decided to not incorporate those options*

> * SVCM8 - Are there concepts or descriptions included in X.4 that are
> unnecessary for the purposes of this profile?
>
>   * *Removed most of this section to streamline it.*
